#A description of Apple's CoreData framework.

  * http://developer.apple.com/macosx/coredata.html
  * http://developer.apple.com/documentation/Cocoa/Conceptual/CoreData/index.html

Core Data, new in Tiger, completes the Cocoa vision for building well-factored applications based on the Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern by providing a strong, flexible, and powerful data model framework. This vision started with Interface Builder which has long provided a world-class solution for defining the user interface, known as the view in MVC terminology, quickly and easily while eliminating innumerable lines of code in the process. Mac OS X v10.3 Panther built on the vision by providing pre-built controller objects in the form of Cocoa bindings which eliminates the need for much of the glue code between an application's user interface and its data model.

Prior to Tiger, however, the tedious job of creating an application's data model, managing it, and saving it to disk has, for the most part, been left up to the developer to handle. And, since every application has some sort of data model, this was a problem that every developer had to solve independently. Core Data changes the game entirely. Firstly, in the same way that Interface Builder vastly simplifies creating user interfaces, Core Data lets you quickly define your application's data model in a graphic way and easily access it from your code. Secondly, Core Data provides an infrastructure to deal with common functionality such as undo and redo and data persistence, allowing you to get on with the task of building innovation into your application.